This statement, or variations of it, is a somewhat problematical one. It is typically employed as a variation of the "no true Scotsman" fallacy when trying to defend Marxism as a political philosophy when the dim historical record of Communist Party-led states (eg USSR, DPRK, Cambodia, etc.) is used to discredit Marxism. But this defense rests on two interrelated distortions 

One,  most of the historical Communist Parties in question would not have considered their societies to be Communist. In classical Marxist, Communism was the terminal stage of human social development that would be achieved *after* a revolution resulting in a seizure of power by the proletariat. Even then, the post-revolutionary period would be one of socialism, not communism, which would come after the state "withered away," in Engels's memorable phrase. Discourse within Communist-bloc countries almost invariably described their sociopolitical and economic system as socialist. The GDR's initial platform for transforming Germany was emblematic of this type of thinking in its very name: *Aufbau des Sozialismus*. As the word *Aufbau* suggests, the state was erecting a socialist society, and GDR agitprop often featured this metaphor in action such as [this poster](http://www.akg-images.de/Docs/AKG/Media/TR3_WATERMARKED/2/0/b/b/AKG916511.jpg). This form of socialism did not necessarily work all that well, and especially in the Eastern bloc (USSR and Warsaw Pact states), leaders soon learned to be increasingly vague about setting an exact time for when Communism would arrive. Khrushchev's claims that the 1980s would be the period of true Communism soon became the butt of jokes after his downfall. So on these terms, "Real communism has never been tried," does not really grapple with what these Communist Parties were trying to actually accomplish when in power. 

The second problem with this statement is that it proceeds from an argument that the places where a Communist Party fought and seized power (eg Russia, China, Vietnam, etc.) were not the places that classical Marxism predicted a revolution to start. Marx and the first generation of Marxists argued that modern Western states with bourgeois capitalism were the ideal nesting ground for a revolution because they created the socioeconomic contradictions that were a precondition for a working-class revolution. The revolution, when it came, would not emanate from the countryside, but the urban core. More often than not, the "real communism" defense usually cites the root cause of the malformation of politics by Marxist solutions being tried in societies that did not have the requisite socioeconomic development to properly implement them. 

The fact that Lenin and company implemented a proletarian revolution without much of a proletariat was a source of considerable embarrassment to the early Soviet state. Yet Lenin, as with Mao and a host of other Communist party leaders did come up with a number of narrative strategies and theories explaining this seeming contradiction. The very notion of a Communist Party was one of these stratagems as one of the tenets of the Bolsheviks was that a vanguard of determined, class-awoken revolutionaries could give historical development a nudge and push a revolution. One of the insights of Marxist theorists in the Third World was to place the interrelationship between the agrarian peasantry and Western colonialism which stretched the definition of proletariat to include these groups. 

These stratagems do show some of the flexibility of Marxist thought, even if it tended to become a self-justification for one-party rule. And herein is a major problem of the "real communism" defense: Marxism is not static. Marxist theory has changed considerably over the course of the twentieth and twenty-first centuries. One of the crucial areas in Marxist thought is examining exactly why modern Western nations did not witness a mass proletarian uprising. The Gramscian concept of hegemony, explored in this [Monday Methods discussion](https://www.reddit.com/r/AskHistorians/comments/5e9s91/monday_methods_marxism_and_hegemony/), examined how non-materialist factors like culture helped condition societies' political order. The Frankfurt school likewise looked at mass culture and other facets of capitalist social development and how they inhibited the very form of proletarian class consciousness Marx had breathlessly predicted a century before. And this just scratches the surface of Marxist thought.

At the risk of erecting a strawman, the type of person who argues "real communism has never been tried" usually tends to be an old-school Marxist agitating for a proletarian revolution in the West or even for a new, decentralized vanguardist party incorporating the lessons of Trotsky or other early twentieth-century thinkers. While classical Marxism certainly has its uses as an analytical tool, Marxism has evolved considerably since 1917. 

--- [/u/kieslowskifan](https://www.reddit.com/user/kieslowskifan)
