The people of Florida petitioned for a bullet train between Miami and Orlando, and got it put on the ballot, and voted it through. The thought was to build this first leg, and then keep extending it up the east coast. At the same time, a similar route could be developed along the West coast. Then at some time in the future, east/ west routes could be developed across the south and the North. But governor Jeb Bush refused to honor it.

So the citizens of Florida petitioned again, and got it on the ballot again, and passed it again. It had bipartisan support, and private sector entities pledged to cover any overages in construction, and the maintenance and operation for 10 years. Then Obama got elected, and as part of his stimulation package, he offered up nearly all of the money to build it. With Federal and private sector help, it would cost the state of Florida nearly nothing, and create thousands of permanent jobs for years into the future. It was a no-brainer, with lots of upside and almost no downside.

Then Rick Scott was elected, and literally the very first thing he announced was that the bullet train project was killed. He had never mentioned this a single time during his campaign, and if he had, he would have certainly lost the race, which he won by a razor thin margin. He was attempting to ingratiate himself with the federal GOP leadership and assure them that he was on board with doing anything he could to limit Obama's success. He unilaterally dismissed the wishes of the citizens of Florida, who wanted this project enough to vote for it twice, the private sector, which was willing to support it to the tune of hundreds of millions of dollars, and the bipartisan political support that it had. It would have cost the state nearly nothing, and brought thousands of permanent jobs to the state, and kicked off an infrastructure program that wohld have been the future of transportation in America and created millions of new permanent jobs.

When he unilaterally killed the program, there was immediate talk of a recall, even among Republicans, but since Jeb Bush had quietly amended the state constitution after helping his idiot brother get elected president, Florida no longer had a recall option in the state constitution. So we were stuck with a convicted criminal as governor, who put the damaging of Obama's presidency ahead of the wishes and jobs of his own state. He has since tried to make a big deal out of how many jobs he created for the state of Florida, but It is a pittance compared to how many jobs he killed by cancelling the high speed rail project.

--- [/u/The_Original_Gronkie](https://www.reddit.com/user/The_Original_Gronkie)
