There's a pretty deep vein of nationalism that runs through small-town America.  There are a lot of people that would love to hear Europeans bash Trump because, to them, Europe is a socialist hellhole that is currently drowning in Muslims.  Their information streams are the people around them and the right-wing American media, specifically Fox News.  A lot of these people work in industry or agriculture, real salt-of-the-earth, blue-collar jobs that have largely shifted away from the US, or modernized enough to significantly reduce the required workforce.  They used to have stable, high-paying jobs that have gone away.  For the past 50 years, if you're a good union worker, you vote Democrat and know that they'll fight for you.  Well where has that gotten you?  The jobs are slowly slipping away and your little town is dying.  The Democrats have done nothing for you, the Republicans fought your union, so they're not exactly on your side either.  You're fed up and angry with presidential candidates coming through every 4 years telling you that they're gonna fix things, and then they get elected (whether you voted for them or not) and they disappear until the next election cycle.  You're part of the downtrodden, the passed-by, the forgotten American worker and they couldn't tell you enough how important you are.  But as soon as January comes along and they get sworn in, they're focused on some conflict in some place that has never meant a thing to you.  Or they're fixing a health care system that used to work just fine for you, or an education bill, or taxes, etc. etc. etc. but all you really want is your job that you used to have.

So now, here comes this guy who is a businessman.  As far as you know, he's a self made man.  He's not a politician.  And you know what else? **He talks the way you talk.**  He's not gonna bullshit you about how you're the backbone of this country.  He actually knows that it's true, because he's a builder and he knows what blue-collar labor does.  You could see yourself in his shoes some day, maybe after you save up a few bucks and start that welding outfit you always wanted to start.  And the misogyny, hey, he's just a man right.  People talked like that in the 70s and it was no big deal because the 70s were great and you had a job back then.  Maybe if people loosened up about the sexual-harassment-this and patriarchy-that, then we could go back to that time.  

And another thing.  You're a white guy, and maybe you're all for black equality, but you saw that they got everything they wanted in the 60s with MLK and the Civil Rights Act.  Battle over.  And maybe you live in a town with almost no black people.  Well how easy it is, then, to say "If they don't have jobs by now, it's their fault. They have every opportunity, they just haven't taken it."  And it's **so easy** to say that because you don't see them, you have no idea what their life is like, and you hear your neighbor Bill say it.  And his wife Susan agrees.  "If those niggers had any motivation at all, they'd be just fine."  And maybe you don't use the n-word like that, but you remember how your dad used to, and you share the sentiment anyway, so what can one word hurt.  

So back to Donald, he's saying that what we really need to do is **crack down** on those people.  If they're gonna act like children, then we need to be firm parents here.  And you're all on board, that's the kind of non-PC action that we need in this country.

This guy is a billionaire, he has buildings all over the world with his name on them, and a penthouse suite in each one.  He bangs models, he flies around in his own jet, and he's gonna run for president?  Why do that? Why leave that life for the thankless office of president?  Because he cares about you, the little guy. And he's gonna help you.  And he's telling the Dems and the GOP to go fuck themselves, and brother, that is music to your ears.  Your vote is as good as his.  And it all makes sense; everybody you know thinks the same way, Fox news seems to agree, and if they're not quite singing the tune you like, fuck them too, there's this new website called Breitbart that Bill's kid reads and it's saying all the things you're thinking.  The only people that disagree are hippies and city-dwelling liberals that have never done an honest day's work in their lives.  They've never been out digging trenches on a hot day, so what the fuck would they know about how the world works?  You have real honest-to-god experience, you know that the real world begins where the big city ends.

So tomorrow, when you go to that poll, you're going to pull the golden shiny lever, and things will change.  Everything will go back to the way it used to be, back before the world got so tangled and complicated and confusing.  And you'll remember how great it was to come home from the factory to your comfortable 3-bedroom house and have a cold beer and watch Leave it to Beaver, or Father Knows Best, or whatever you used to watch.

That's why Trump exists.  That's why this election is even in question.

--- [/u/nobledoug](https://www.reddit.com/user/nobledoug)
