The problem is that capitalism has over production, this sounds great, and maybe would be except, it is under a profit system. Why does it over produce? Because it is inherent under capitalism and cannot be prevented the capitalist economy follows the formula of M-C-M' which M represents money invested to create a commodity (C) and then the profit is M' (pronounced M prime). So for example we spend 5 dollars to make a 10 dollar shirt, $1 for transportation, $0.50 for wear and tear on machine, and $1 for materials then $2.50 for the worker That 5$ represents M, then after labor a shirt is created which is C and the profit (Shirt price minus cost of making, 10 minus 5) is a $5 profit.
Because the worker gets paid 2.50 that means for every shirt he makes he can only buy one fourth of that same shirt back, now when we look at say 500 workers then can all only buy x amount of all of the products, thus not everything can sell because there must be a profit to be made.

Because of this over production, capitalists do whatever they can to make up for the surplus which cannot sell, such as laying off workers and raising prices thus bringing the economy into a recession, this is inherent under capitalism and did not even occur once under the soviet union (when it happened about 8 times during the soviet union's existence). Therefor unemployment rises and people get paid less, eventually the economy may recover but still it will happen in just a few years.

That is the main economic problem of capitalism

The social problem with capitalism is a dialectical social relationship between the proletariat (those who produce) and the bourgeoisie (those who own the means of productions and hire people to produce) the problem is not necessarily that the bourgeoisie are evil (as evil is always a matter of evil for whom?) but that the interests of the bourgeoisie and the proletariat are and will always be in opposition even naturally, Engels was a factory owner and he had to exploit workers or else he would run out of business. The interests of the proletariat are better working conditions, higher wages, and etc. The interests of the bourgeoisie are to create profit and lowering wages, and worse working conditions generally create profit. Thus we have class conflict, it is an antagonistic contradiction which means that it cannot be resolved under the current order of society and there must be a huge revolution in system and social character to solve this. Because of this contradiction in the interests of class, Imperialism exists. 

Imperialism is when a country accumulates capital through the workers of a foreign country E.G. sweat shops in India. They super exploit women men and children, and under develop countries as wages will almost never increase, nor will living standards to a national extent. Imperialism came about from the workers of developed countries demanding better wages and other things which go against the bourgeois class interest of profit, therefore to keep profit factory jobs were placed in India and imperialism developed in the name of profit(see the trend?). Therefore the proletariat of more developed countries live better and are more satisfied with the current economy than the starving proletariat of the underdeveloped countries which is why there is a larger movement there. 

Because the class interest of the bourgeoisie is profit, the environment does not matter, as it is profitable to quickly exploit resources even if they damage the earth. It is because of profit that sexism and racism exists as is today (a black american female will earn half of what a white male will, thus sexism and racism justify paying them less). It is because of profit that people do not have access to the same things they had in the soviet union (free healthcare, guaranteed work, a house to live in, free education and etc). Unemployment works as a labor pool, and draws people from it so they can get cheaper workers, and can lay off workers without fear, unemployment does not benefit the proletariat, so that is another class contradiction.

To summarize, the main problems of capitalism is that the economy will no matter what go through bad periods due to surplus and the proletariat will suffer because of it. The other main problem is that the interests of the workers and the bourgeoisie will always differ therefore the proletariat will always be exploited under capitalism. Because of bourgeois interests issues like sexism, the environment, racism and etc cannot be solved.

Edit: Forgive the long reply 

For further reading check out [Wage Labour and Capital](https://www.marxists.org/archive/marx//works/1847/wage-labour/) 

--- [/u/dwelve](https://www.reddit.com/user/dwelve)
