Pretty disappointed in some wack answers from fellow comrades.

Communism doesn't require central planning to work. Plenty of communist are anarcho-communists, or libertarian socialists, which foregoes any form of central planning state altogether. You will still have traditional market signals to guide production of food and other items. If a syndicate of workers produces x amount of food, and the local distribution center only distributes x-1000, the workers will adjust accordingly. So this is a non-issue.

Anyway, why would anyone work hard or innovate? As for innovation, there's still reasons to innovate, such as fame, social standing, or legacy. People still want to leave their marks on the world, and history doesn't stop when communism starts. There's also innovation for the betterment of humanity, the thing that drives most scientists and researchers. And, if this gives weaker incentives for people to innovate, this would be greatly offset by the number of people who are given the opportunity to do so. Under capitalism, your birth determines almost everything about your quality of life. Dynastic human capital, borders, and segregation create "haves" and "have-nots". Eliminating this inequality, more people would be brought up to basic Western standards of living (which is beyond the scope of this argument, but we live in a post-scarcity world), and therefore would be allowed to innovate. Communism is the most innovative system, because more minds allows for more innovation.

But if no one had incentives to work, why would they? Well, firstly, there's a litany of literature on how people much prefer autonomy to subjugation. The whole bosses and managers thing, no one takes too kindly to those. This is pretty uncontroversial. [Here's a paper on the subject of psychological autonomy](https://www.springer.com/cda/content/document/cda_downloaddocument/9789401785419-c2.pdf?SGWID=0-0-45-1492245-p176370416)

[Under the current capitalist order, workers work excessively long hours that stifle worker satisfaction, productivity, and standard of living. Even peasants had happier lives than modern workers.](https://hbr.org/2015/08/the-research-is-clear-long-hours-backfire-for-people-and-for-companies) 

It's my position that keeping these things in mind, we could radically reduce the amount of hours worked, and do away with traditional hierarchies and structures and workers would produce the same wealth, or even more. If workers need guidance under a big operation, they could always elect their own defacto leader. But we still have a problem which is without commensurate compensation, no would continue working in that intense corporate job. No one would ever work these [40 most boring jobs ever, apparently.](https://www.coburgbanks.co.uk/blog/friday-funnies/the-40-most-boring-jobs/)

*And you're right!* No one would work the jobs that serve no human purpose. With capitalism, marketing departments and most corporate jobs would evaporate without the profit motive to keep them going. People that labor in soul crushing jobs working 60-80 hours, would flip the finger to their boss and go do something else. You're right! But we don't need those jobs.

You mean to tell me that without money, people stop functioning, society goes hungry overnight and collapses because there's no incentive to work? What greater incentive is there than being in control of your own life and deciding what you want to do? People think that capitalism is productive because productivity thrives when people seek power and mega bucks. *That's false.* People seek power because they seek autonomy, and money is the only way to acquire autonomy. Give everyone autonomy and you have a productive society.

The roundabout way you give incentives for work is labor vouchers, essentially, but that's only a temporary transitional fix as people adjust to currency being abolished. People will work because they enjoy what they do. With work by necessity abolished, only work by love remains. Think of all the doctors, chefs, video-game developers, movie makers who choose to stay in their professions despite comparatively mediocre compensation. If pay was the driving factor for them, they would immediately drop what they do and use their skills to be a businessman or whatever has higher wages. Yet, they don't because they have a genuine love for what they do. A love mired by insane work hours, and capitalist pressure to be as efficient as possible, but a love nonetheless. 

People will still labor because it's how society has persisted for ages. Wage labor is a new phenomenon, and by all accounts it has resulted in the degradation of the human spirit. You hit the nail on the head on your final sentence, the study of economics is quite simply the study of Western capitalism and the behavior of people under exploitation. People's behavior under capitalism isn’t *normal*. This 300 year old experiment has been an aberration, and if you want any insights into human nature, you won't find it under capitalism.

--- [/u/CrustyArdvaark](https://www.reddit.com/user/CrustyArdvaark)
