Rojava is Western Kurdistan, literally meaning "sunset" in Kurmanji.  The Kurdish people have a unique postcolonial existence, their homeland spread across four (technically 6, but Armenia recognizes them and the Kurds in Turkmenistan have some autonomy I understand, but it's hard to find reliable information) separate nation-states whose ruling regimes have been extremely antithetical to the existence of the Kurds as an ethnic group.

Throughout the Cold War, the Kurds received support from the USSR, alongside many other colonized groups seeking independence, and the support was the strongest in Turkey, which, of course, was a NATO signatory.  The Turkish State, out of the four nation-states across which Kurdistan is stretched (Turkey, Iran, Iraq, and Syria) has historically the most oppressive toward the Kurds, practicing cultural genocide and even ethnic cleansing as a matter of internal policy.  For a long time, it was illegal to even mention Kurds.

With support from the USSR and other Marxist-Leninist parties in Turkey (such as the MKLP), the Kurdistan Worker's Party (or the PKK) fought with some success against the Turkish government.  After the fall of the Soviet Union, however, material support for Kurdish independence waned, and the Turks felt comfortable to roll back some of the most heinous practices in their oppression of the Kurds, while simultaneously cracking down on the PKK, now without foreign support and with waning support throughout Kurdistan.

Simultaneously, American aggression, first against Iran, and later also against Iraq, meant that Kurdish independence movements there had developed along neoliberal-capitalist lines, almost entirely under the control of the corrupt Barzani clan.  The Barzanis historically have worked together with Turkey and the United States.  They're not the major villains of this story, but they aren't the good guys.  Think of them like Jabba the Hut, but strip away Mediterranean/Middle Eastern stereotypes.  The 2003 invasion of Iraq meant some degree of autonomy for Iraqi Kurds, and a further waning in support for the PKK.

In 1999, the leader of the PKK (which up to this point had maintained its increasingly irrelevant Marxist-Leninist ideology) was arrested in Kenya and extradited to Turkey, where he was convicted of treason and separatism and sentenced to death.  However, a change in Turkish law commuted his death sentence and merely exiled him to an island, like Napoleon, but way cooler.

While in exile, Abdullah Öcalan (also called Apo, meaning father, [but you can call him Daddy](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/5/5d/Abdullah_%C3%96calan.png)) came across the works of American libertarian socialist author Murray Bookchin (DuckDuckGo him) and began a process of reconsidering his political stances and the the theory and praxis of the PKK.  Bookchin's theory of communalism advocated for a co-operative economy, radical social ecology, and a more horizontalist approach to political organization and national liberation.  An early example of communalist theory in practice is MOVE, and if you want to read about a post-Panther radical black liberation movement in America that spent most of its time protesting zoos but still posed a big enough threat to the status quo that the FBI carpet-bombed half of Philadelphia to eradicate them, then you're going to want to do some research).  In 2006, Öcelot took up Bookchin's theory of communalism, but appended his own theories of social organization in the Middle East and a rigorous anthropological approach to feminism termed "Jineology" (literally translated as "women's studies").  Öcalan termed the new philosophy of the PKK "Democratic Confederalism".

Because he was wanted by the Turkish state, Öcalan and other PKK bigwigs had spent much of the 1990s in Syria, which did not have an extradition treaty with any NATO country (this is still a problem incidentally.  Early this year, Muslim Salih was arrested in Czechia, though he was later released after outcry from the pro-Kurdish lobby).  The strong connections that the PKK formed in Syria meant that by the time DemConFed was formulated, there was already a community in Syria receptive to the idea.

When the Syrian revolution kicked off, the PYD rapidly moved to organize a defence for the Kurdish people, with some support from the PKK.  This mobilization became urgent as ISIS began to take control of around half of Syria and a decent chunk of Iraq, the largest contiguous chunk of ISIS-held territory stretching from the outskirts of Aleppo to a stone's-throw from Baghdad.  ISIS also began to expand north toward the border with Turkey, with whom they had become prominent trading partners, exporting oil and minerals and importing weapons, cash, bombs, ammunition, and other supplies.  Only a  few thousand Kurdish men and women of the YPG (People's Protection Units) and YPJ (Women's Protection Units) stood in their way.  They were completely surrounded, being ruthlessly hemmed in by the most elite troops ISIS had to offer: veterans of the post-2006 insurgency in Iraq, Ba'ath Party defectors, old Chechen jihadists all closed in from the east, west, and south, while from the North, the Kurdish defenders were bombarded by shells fired from Turkish tanks and artillery.

The Kurds held out ^^^(with) ^^^(help) ^^^(from) ^^^(American) ^^^(air) ^^^(support,) ^^^(but) ^^^(whatever) and pushed ISIS back.  The Battle of Kobani was the first time ISIS had ever suffered a major defeat.  ISIS, prior to the victory of the Kurds in Kobani, had looked to all the world like an unstoppable whirlwind of genocide and rape.  The YPG and YPJ stood fast against the hurricane and blew the winds back out to the ocean.

Meanwhile, hundreds of thousands of Yazidi, Christian, Arab, and Assyrian refugees were fleeing directly toward the Kurdish homeland.  While racists in Western countries in having mental breakdowns over seeing a brown person on the bus, the Kurds immediately took in everybody, recognizing this as their opportunity not only to do the right thing, but to demonstrate the potential of Democratic Confederalist ideology to unite numerous ethnic, religious, and linguistic groups across the whole of the Middle East.  It worked.  Several other militias, like YBS or the Northern Sun Battalion, were formed in order to serve the interests of the communities they represent.  Many of these militias were federated under the SDF, or Syrian Democratic Forces. 

Neither DemConFed nor communalism are properly anarchist, since they allow for hierarchies that most anarchists would consider unjustified, DemConFed still operates via vanguard parties (albeit ones far more libertarian than your average tankie), and because both posit the possibility of the coexistence of a stateless society with a nation-state, which is just incomprehensible in anarchist terms.  I think at one point in *Democratic Nation*, Öcalan claims that both vertical and horizontal social formations are necessary.  Nevertheless, the movements associated with Democratic Confederalism and Communalism are very endearing to anarchists throughout the world for their anti-statism, their anti-capitalism, feminism, and social ecology, and hundreds of anarchists and other socialists (including some Marxist-Leninists and MLMs, though they are typically more critical of the Revolution) have joined the struggle against fascism in Syria.  Many westerners, in the grand leftist tradition of internationalism, have fought with the YPG and YPJ, while others have gone on to form and join allied militias specifically organized along their own ideological lines, including the International Freedom Batallion, the Antifascist International Tabor (now YPG-International), the Michael Israel Bridgade, TQILA, RUIS, and IRPGF.

Rojava is used to mean that part of the Democratic Federation of Northern Syria primarily settled by Kurds, or that part of Kurdistan found within the borders of Syria.  It's technically incorrect to refer to the whole territory protected by the SDF and its allies as "Rojava", and those who are particularly committed to the multicultural project of the DFNS will likely correct you if they feel like you're diminishing the struggle of Arabs, Yazidis, Turkmen, etc. in favour of a simplified project for Kurdish nationalism.  However, I wouldn't worry about that too much.  We anarchists are a deeply nostalgic bunch, and everybody knows what everyone means when they talk about the Revolution in Rojava.

In short, fuck Erdogan, fuck ISIS, fuck al-Qaeda, fuck al-Nusra, fuck ar-Sham, fuck the Grey Wolves.  Freedom for Afrin.  Freedom for Turkey.

Sehid nemirin.  Biji biji Rojava!

--- [/u/TheMightyRocktopus](https://www.reddit.com/user/TheMightyRocktopus)
