Capitalism stifles innovation. One of the biggest ways it does this is that if it isn't something that can be monetized, it isn't worthy of existing. And taking it further, it's typically only worthy if it is more profitable than the current thing. We're starting to see the turnover in energy, as oil becomes more expensive to drill for. Sure, there's innovation within the industry to extract harder to reach oil for less than it used to, but this really doesn't defeat my point. This is partially why alternative energy sources only relatively recently started an uptick. Also, look at hollywood. People bemoan the same old shitty action flicks and sequels. Because that's why makes money. Not a whole lot of pressure to develop much else.

As for people learning more but getting paid the same? Well, some people are quite fine with coasting. But many others seek improvement for personal reasons as well. This won't stop if a money factor is removed. In fact, it can help people who don't have the means to do more if they now have the resources to do it. People have always done things partially for prestige and having a legacy. 

As far as determining value, getting there has a whole bunch of ideas, but ultimately nothing would have a currency value. Take what you need, give what you can. Social pressure has always coerced people into doing more than they would otherwise. As an anecdote, I'm kind of a messy person. But when I have roommates or guests, I am more proactive and keep a cleaner house. Because I don't want to piss off my roommates, and I don't want to be thought of as a slob. This can be extrapolated. And even though it's an anecdote, this can certainly be applied to many people.

There will always be freeloaders. People who are lazy. People who just don't give a fuck what others think. But right now, some of the biggest freeloaders are people who take an exorbitant amount of wealth just by owning something and not actually doing anything productive, living off of the wealth others create for them.

--- [/u/just_an_ordinary_guy](https://www.reddit.com/user/just_an_ordinary_guy)
