Ok, here goes. I agree there's nothing wrong with an equal, respectful cultural exchange. But I do think that cultural appropriation exists and needs to be called out.

Power dynamics makes all the difference. When members of a dominant culture take elements from a minority groups’ culture for profit without doing prior research, it’s cultural appropriation.

For one, it's a question of pure exploitation. A textbook example of cultural appropriation is Urban Outfitters selling Navajo-inspired products such as the “Navajo Hipster Panty” and “Navajo Flask.” This isn't enjoying other cultures; this is profiting off your own culture with the guise of caring for other cultures. While Urban Outfitters was profiting off those products by their position as the hottest alternative brand in town, the Navajo people selling high quality, authentic merchandise suffered. This is extremely far removed from what Navajo people live every day. And it's misrepresenting their culture while putting actual Navajo people down. 

Rock and roll is another good example; not of cultural appropriation, but as an example of how racism is inherently tied to it. Take Elvis Presley, for instance. Almost everyone knows him as the “King of Rock and Roll,” but the genre goes all the way back to the blues. Black artists had written and recorded high-quality rock and roll music years before Elvis, but the white media wasn’t yet ready to accept them. As Sam Phillips, Elvis’ first producer, famously said, “If I could find a white man who had the Negro sound and the Negro feel, I could make a billion dollars.” When Elvis Presley came along, ~~he saw rock and roll and claimed it as is own. In short, he appropriated it, and~~ the rock and roll movement went down in history as a white revolution. 

And then it’s just disrespectful. Members of a dominant group don’t have to deal with the challenges that minorities face daily. White fashion models who wear dreadlocks are praised for being “alternative” and “edgy,” but they don’t have to face the possibilities of being denied employment that black people who decide to wear their hair naturally do. This attitude praises whites while disparaging blacks for exactly the same thing, which is inherently racist. Doing away with it would be better than not.

I don't think that any culture in history has tried to avoid cultural appropriation. Success was dominance of culture. So that's why it's a big deal today - ~~we want to stop~~ I'm glad people are acknowledging the vicious cycle of cultural dominance. 

Finally I would say respectful engagement is everything. Moana is a great example of respectful cultural engagement. It was a movie made by white people, for a white audience to enjoy. But the producers went to speak to indigenous people, changing things to their approval. Some of the proceeds went to the people as well, I think (though I'm not entirely sure). As long as you're being respectful when engaging with another culture (by knowing where those cultural elements are coming from) and you're making sure that you aren't disadvantaging them economically, you're good to go. Power imbalances, of course, make all the difference. I don't think buying Navajo products is disrespectful as long as you know how they're used by Navajo people and they're bought from Navajo people. It's a fine line, but it's one that deserves a lot of thought.

**Edit:** Okay. Some people have called me out for being unfair to Elvis, and I completely agree with that. Like r/newaccount pointed out, Elvis was surrounded by blues and country music, and that was as much his culture as it was everyone else's in that region. And r/egn56 also said out that Elvis fully realized that his success was due to race and he "didn't take credit as much more as he was made into that figure by the media," even himself pointing out the unfairness of his situation. I just brought up his situation as an example of the racism in society that exists in order for cultural appropriation to occur. It's not on Elvis, but his fame exposes the flaws in a society that celebrates whites for something while ignoring something prevalent in and identifying to black society of that area for the same thing. 

--- [/u/Lev42](https://www.reddit.com/user/Lev42)
